[Music]
did you know that claustrophobic
describes people who are afraid of that
jolly fat man who delivers presents at
Christmas time really trust me ok no
that's not really claustrophobic
actually the worst nightmare for
claustrophobic people well for most
people really is being stuck in an
elevator and in an emergency situation
like this there are some serious do's
and don'ts that you need to be aware of
so let's break them all down together
but before we start don't forget to
subscribe to our Channel and hit that
little notification bell so that you'll
always be the first to see all our new
videos so if you happen to find yourself
trapped in an elevator the first thing
you need to do is stay calm sure this
situation isn't exactly pleasant but
it's not the end of the world either
your instinct to panic won't help you at
all and will only waste valuable time if
you start freaking out you can
experience oxygen deficiency
since elevators aren't exactly well
ventilated you certainly don't want that
so try your best to breathe normally
stand up straight and take deep breaths
in so your heart won't race after you've
calmed yourself down it's time to kick
into action don't do anything stupid
like jumping up and down because it
won't magically kick-start the elevator
into working again in fact it'll only
affect the car's stabilizer system and
make it more difficult for you to get
out safely before doing anything major
try to call for help using the button
marked with a bell though if the
electricity is out this may not be an
option in this case try to let other
people know you're stuck by making as
much noise as possible
yell for help or take your shoe off and
bang it on the elevator doors if that
works people outside will not only be
able to call for necessary help
themselves they'll also know your
precise location in case you need to
escape the elevator by yourself
if the electricity isn't working try to
find a light source it may calm down the
sense of panic and help you navigate
better since Italy
to help you see the buttons if possible
use your phone
thank goodness nowadays almost every
smartphone comes equipped with a
built-in flashlight and most of us have
our phone on us at all times if you have
a flashlight keychain it's pretty useful
too if you don't carry one with you at
all times you might want to consider
getting one because it's extremely
useful to have in all kinds of
emergencies anyway one thing you should
definitely stay away from is a lighter
not only is it hazardous it'll also suck
up your precious oxygen it's better just
to stick to the two previous options
instead if the call button doesn't work
don't rush to any action movie escape
right away at least try to call the
building's reception desk or 911 if you
have a different emergency number in
your country you should find out what it
is put it in your phone and learn it by
heart do the same if you're planning a
trip abroad luckily most elevators have
the local emergency number printed on
the wall or on the button panel but it's
still good to have it in your phone just
in case
don't waste any more time and call it
immediately the person who answers will
get help and tell you exactly what to do
if everything is worked out and help is
on the way all you can do is wait and be
patient try to keep yourself preoccupied
by calling up a friend or a family
member if possible you can always play
games on your phone to kill time if you
feel too stressed to do any of that try
thinking of a list of things you need to
do or how to rework your schedule to fit
in this minor setback the busier you
make yourself the faster time will pass
until help comes to your rescue
if you still can distract yourself and
can't help but feel scared and
hysterical try a little meditation just
breathe in clear your mind and try to
relax as much as you can this will not
only be a huge relief for you it'll also
make the time fly if you're stuck in an
elevator with someone else
hey just strike up a conversation the
other person is in the same boat
elevator that you are and is probably
feeling just as scared they'll most
likely appreciate you breaking the ice
maybe you'll even become friends after
that who knows having the same problems
brings people together like nothing else
now let's imagine that none of the other
steps have worked and you have to get
out on your own in this case first try
pushing the buttons they may in fact
open the doors especially if the
elevator is stuck on one of the floors
and just won't open don't keep pushing
the button of the floor you were trying
to get to instead try pressing the
button of the floor you're stuck at if
that doesn't work try the open door
button and if they won't budge after
that hit the stop button if it's stuck
pull it out and press it again don't
skip this step it assures that the
elevator won't start moving while you're
on your way out
alright if there's no one on the other
side of the doors to help you you need
to make an escape plan ASAP first of all
make sure the elevator is an in-between
floors or in any other awkward position
if it's level with a floor try forcing
the doors open and recheck the position
of the cabin then pull the interlock
holding the shaft doors close and pry
them open that'll allow you to get out
of the elevator car and help other
passengers do the same in case you're
not alone and there you go you're out
and safe and sound on stable ground
uh-huh we're not done yet let's take
things to the extreme
I mean you have to be prepared for
everything even the worst right so what
if you find yourself in a free-falling
elevator is there a way to survive or do
you have zero chances let's have a
closer look at the most popular tips out
there first of all don't listen to all
this nonsense about jumping right before
the elevator crashes into the ground you
can't possibly know for sure when
exactly the right moment will be plus if
you follow this advice all you'll end up
doing is hitting your head on the
elevator ceiling so this survival
strategy is definitely not one to stick
to
by the way the guy who wrote that bad
advice his name was splat also standing
there cluelessly and doing nothing is
also out of the question
the problem won't magically go away just
because you want it to
so what choices do you have the good old
lay flat on the floor option actually
isn't too shabby just be sure to lay on
your back though as opposed to your
stomach this position helps distribute
the force of impact across your entire
body sounds terrifying I know but this
method can help you avoid any serious
life-threatening injuries
still be prepared to end up with a
couple of broken bones it's pretty much
inevitable while we're at it another
great idea is to cover your face with
your arms you see when the elevator hits
the bottom of the shaft it's very likely
to break into pieces so protecting your
face from falling debris can ensure the
absence of any possible injuries and
that's basically it for a survival plan
in this situation yeah it's not much and
unfortunately following these steps
doesn't guarantee you'll get out 100%
safe but this plan gives you the best
shot at coming out alive as opposed to
all the other options me I'll just
probably scream all the way down hoping
there's some ice cream down there to
break my fall think about it
let's just hope you never find yourself
in such a dangerous situation so have
you ever been stuck in an elevator tell
us in the comments below and don't
forget to click Subscribe to stay on the
bright side of life